# data-tool

http://students.washington.edu/mnanakul/info474/data-tool/

For the visual layout, a treemap was my optimal choice for expressing the data because through the years, the viewer will be able to see the fatality trends between different causes of death via square size. The large squares effectively group the age groups and within each age group, the viewer is able to see the impact of a particular cause of death in the selected year. With each age group a different color, the viewer is able to compare different age groups to each other and see the impact of the cause of death. The shifting of the treemap allows the groups to stay in the same spot while changing the causes of death to see the trend of the causes over the selected years. By using area and color, the treemap informs the viewer to pay attention to the relationship of causes of death between age groups.

The user can ask questions relating to the impact of the causes of death over the years. With data ranging from years 1990 to 2010, the viewer is able to see the trend of a particular cause of death. The treemap is superior to a line or bar chart to express trends because the treemap is able to take advantage of more variables than a bar or line chart. There would be too many lines to compare since there are so many causes of death to account for. A line or bar chart can only account for 2 variables for the x and y axis but a treemap can account for the 3 present: age group, fatalities, and years. The viewer can select the buttons to view the number of fatalities for all the age groups for that year.